# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

Within the console.rb file:

property1 = Property.new( {'address' => 'Castle View Terrace',
'value' => '500',
'number_of_bedrooms' => '4',
'year_built' => '1970',
'buy_let_status' => 'For sale',
'square_footage' => '1600',
'build_semi_flat_etc' => 'Detached'
} )

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

Within the model file in our model folder which contains our ruby file for the Property class:

def save
db = PG.connect({dbname:'properties', host: 'localhost'})
sql = "INSERT INTO property
(address,
  value,
  number_of_bedrooms,
  year_built,
  buy_let_status,
  square_footage,
  build_semi_flat_etc)

  VALUES
  ($1, $2, $3, $4, $5, $6, $7)
  RETURNING *
  "
  values = [@address, @value, @number_of_bedrooms, @year_built, @buy_let_status, @square_footage, @build_semi_flat_etc]
  db.prepare('save', sql)
  @id = db.exec_prepared('save', values)[0]['id'].to_i
  db.close()
  end

  Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?

  The below lines of 51 - 56 below:

  Property.delete_all()
  property1.save
  property2.save
  property1.address = "CodeClan"
  property1.update
  property2.delete

  Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

  The database does this for us using the SERIAL4 (in this case) method and keeps track of all the data inside the DB in an ordered and consecutive manner. Doing this manually could cause issues with further updates to the db by users.

  Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

  In our model file:
  @id = options['id'].to_i if options['id']

  Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

  Initially there will be no id generated, which would return a nil and nil.to_i = 0 so there'd be loads of 0's returned as ids in our DB which we don't wan't.

  Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

  Instance methods are specific and only impact specific rows of data, class methods impact all of our data rows for example delete_all.

  def Property.delete_all
    db = PG.connect({dbname:'properties', host: 'localhost'})
    sql = "DELETE FROM property"
    db.prepare('delete_all', sql)
    db.exec_prepared('delete_all')
    db.close
  end

  Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

  An array of hashes is returned and we use the hash names to access the id specifically, we then need to convert that string data into an integer within Ruby:

  @id = db.exec_prepared('save', values)[0]['id'].to_i

  Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

  Prepared statements help protect our database from any potential SQL code injections that could delete or modify our data if they weren't present.

  ## Extension Questions

  Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

  Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

  id and address respectively

  Q11. What are their return values?

  the row of data related to the respective search term, and in Ruby thats the hash(es) related to that row(s) of data.
